---
layout: post
title: The Ever-Evolving Symphony of Science 🔭
date: 2020-12-12 21:01:00
description: How it has become the Heartbeat of Humanity?
tags:
categories: 
---

## The Ever-Evolving Symphony of Science
`How it has become the Heartbeat of Humanity`

<br>
{% include figure.html path="assets/img/science-bg.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}

Humankind being the supreme invention of mother nature has continuously been trying to know more, explore much, and do better by inventing and implementing something new. In the third decade of the twenty-first century it will be an understatement to say that science has changed our lives because science has become our way of life.

Since the beginning of human civilization, science has changed human life tremendously. In the era of the stone and bronze age, man discovered metals and invented the wheels and started the journey of science and discovery. The essence of Islamic learning, changed the way of the world regarding the health, hygiene, and infrastructure which persuaded the west to relook at the Geek work of the likes of Pluto and Aristotle, changing the political philosophy and social makeup. 

Galileo's discovery of Earth being round and revolving around the sun proved to be a real game changer. It compelled society to debate over the orthodox religious myths and science resulting in more science undoubtedly.

The eighteenth and nineteenth century was certainly dominated by science, discovery, and inventions. The inception of steam engines and telegrams was a boon for human society. The distance seemed less and communication became much easier than man could have imagined. On a parallel track, biomedical science boomed and thereby opening up space for the treatment of diseases that were thought to be incurable. Discoveries in the field of computer science, physics, chemistry, and astronomy were at an all-time high resulting in the invention of Television and Computers on one hand and vaccines and robots on the other. Man saw the dark facet of science in the form of nuclear weapons and realized its worst fears but didn't stop. 

Bit by bit man traveled to space and in no time he set foot on the moon. Going to the moon was no more a legend, it was the dumbfounding reality. The hunger to achieve more has made Mars his next destination.

Concurrently, the World Wide Web brought the whole world together in just a click. Mobile communication and GPS enabled society to be where it actually couldn't be. Artificial Intelligence took the field of computer science to new heights, what was earlier thought to be possible only by magic was now possible with the help of a few lines of code. Televisions brought a revolution in electronic media, possessing the power to make or break a government.

In a hindsight, it's quite terrifying yet fascinating to think of how life would've been without science. Science has become an integral part of everyone's lives and it will continue to integrate further into our lives with every passing day.