---
layout: post
title: Disrupting Power Dynamics in the National Capital 🇮🇳
date: 2021-05-05 21:01:00
description: Is India an elected Autocracy?
tags:
categories: 
---

## Disrupting Power Dynamics 
`A Bleak Future for the National Capital`

<br>
{% include figure.html path="assets/img/autocracy.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}

Starting with what the NCT Amendment Bill 2021 is; it basically amends the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991 to give primacy to the centrally appointed Lieutenant Governor of Delhi and make the elected Government of Delhi a subsidiary. The elected government will now have to seek the opinion of the Lieutenant Governor for any executive action. The GNCTD Amendment Act was enacted by the Government of India on 28 March 2021.

The legislation amends a 1991 Act with regard to the powers and functions of the Delhi Government and the LG. It clearly defines the powers and functions of the Delhi government and the LG on the lines of the February 2019 judgment of the Supreme Court. This means it will give more power to the LG's office.

The latest amendment will greatly reduce the efficiency and timeliness of the Delhi government by making it imperative for it to hold consultations with the LG even when a situation demands urgent action, and given the recent happenings in the national capital during the infamous Delhi riots, or the Anti-CAA/NRC protests, the impotence of the Delhi Police, which is directly controlled by the Central government, was quite visible and all of this to pacify the right-wing politics of the BJP government. Furthermore to realize that this will worsen the working of the state government hence the situation of the state is saddening.

This amendment in the act was least required as it doesn't clearly state any logical reason for the same, the central government has tried enough to influence the multitude to focus on the non-existent virtues to shadow the pragmatic vices. We all are well aware of the tactics this government plays to suppress the actual issues of inflation, poverty, economic crises, declining law and order, inability to cope-up with the pandemic and the list goes on.

For many, this can be a wise move by the Centre but de facto it's a cowardly step to try and have control over the capital territory. The people who do support are the ones who are blindly following the biased politics which support their agenda. They portray themselves as "patriots" but in reality are a bunch of bigots who in reality are only loyal to the central government. However, the true patriots who love and care for the country are raising their voices against the unjust rule and such unconstitutional and futile decisions.

Time and time we've seen the incompetence of this government, be it the blow of GST to our economy or the catastrophic demonetization which caused a nationwide ruckus. Government-backed media and huge money-fed propaganda machinery are trying to hide the fact that the government has failed on every single front by using the minority as scapegoats. This is a classic fascist government move but stupid and evil fall for it every time.

> Time to ask questions: is India an elected Autocracy?